README.md, before:

# Capacitor Plugins

This repository contains the official Capacitor plugins maintained by the Capacitor team. You can find more plugins in the [Capacitor Community](https://github.com/capacitor-community/).

> ### :rotating_light: These plugins are for Capacitor 6 :rotating_light:
>
> Capacitor 2 core plugins are bundled with Capacitor itself.
>
> For Capacitor 3, use the 1.x version of the plugins.
> For Capacitor 4, use the 4.x version of the plugins.
> For Capacitor 5, use the 5.x version of the plugins.

## Plugins

| Package | Source | Version |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [`@capacitor/action-sheet`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/action-sheet) | [`./action-sheet`](./action-sheet) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/action-sheet?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/action-sheet)
| [`@capacitor/app-launcher`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/app-launcher) | [`./app-launcher`](./app-launcher) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/app-launcher?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/app-launcher)
| [`@capacitor/app`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/app) | [`./app`](./app) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/app?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/app)
| [`@capacitor/browser`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/browser) | [`./browser`](./browser) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/browser?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/browser)
| [`@capacitor/camera`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/camera) | [`./camera`](./camera) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/camera?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/camera)
| [`@capacitor/clipboard`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/clipboard) | [`./clipboard`](./clipboard) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/clipboard?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/clipboard)
| [`@capacitor/device`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/device) | [`./device`](./device) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/device?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/device)
| [`@capacitor/dialog`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/dialog) | [`./dialog`](./dialog) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/dialog?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/dialog)
| [`@capacitor/filesystem`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/filesystem) | [`./filesystem`](./filesystem) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/filesystem?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/filesystem)
| [`@capacitor/geolocation`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/geolocation) | [Migrated](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor-geolocation) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/geolocation?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/geolocation)
| [`@capacitor/haptics`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/haptics) | [`./haptics`](./haptics) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/haptics?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/haptics)
| [`@capacitor/keyboard`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/keyboard) | [`./keyboard`](./keyboard) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/keyboard?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/keyboard)
| [`@capacitor/local-notifications`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/local-notifications) | [`./local-notifications`](./local-notifications) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/local-notifications?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/local-notifications)
| [`@capacitor/motion`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/motion) | [`./motion`](./motion) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/motion?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/motion)
| [`@capacitor/network`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/network) | [`./network`](./network) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/network?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/network)
| [`@capacitor/preferences`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/preferences) | [`./preferences`](./preferences) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/preferences?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/preferences)
| [`@capacitor/push-notifications`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/push-notifications) | [`./push-notifications`](./push-notifications) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/push-notifications?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/push-notifications)
| [`@capacitor/screen-orientation`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/screen-orientation) | [`./screen-orientation`](./screen-orientation) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/screen-orientation?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/screen-orientation)
| [`@capacitor/screen-reader`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/screen-reader) | [`./screen-reader`](./screen-reader) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/screen-reader?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/screen-reader)
| [`@capacitor/share`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/share) | [`./share`](./share) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/share?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/share)
| [`@capacitor/splash-screen`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/splash-screen) | [`./splash-screen`](./splash-screen) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/splash-screen?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/splash-screen)
| [`@capacitor/status-bar`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/status-bar) | [`./status-bar`](./status-bar) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/status-bar?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/status-bar)
| [`@capacitor/text-zoom`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/text-zoom) | [`./text-zoom`](./text-zoom) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/text-zoom?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/text-zoom)
| [`@capacitor/toast`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/toast) | [`./toast`](./toast) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/toast?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/toast)

## Independent Plugins

These are official Capacitor plugins that are not contained in this repository.

| GitHub | Package | Version |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Background Runner](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor-background-runner) | [`@capacitor/background-runner`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/background-runner) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/background-runner?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/background-runner) |
| [Barcode Scanner](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor-barcode-scanner) | [`@capacitor/barcode-scanner`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/barcode-scanner) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/barcode-scanner?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/barcode-scanner) |
| [Google Maps](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor-google-maps) | [`@capacitor/google-maps`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/google-maps) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/google-maps?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/google-maps) |

## Capacitor Labs

These are experimental plugins. Use at your own risk.

| GitHub | Package | Version |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Watch](https://github.com/ionic-team/CapacitorWatch) | [`@capacitor/watch`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/watch) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/watch?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/watch) |

## Contributing

See [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

docs: inform of filesystem plugin migration

README.md, after:

# Capacitor Plugins

This repository contains the official Capacitor plugins maintained by the Capacitor team. You can find more plugins in the [Capacitor Community](https://github.com/capacitor-community/).

> ### :rotating_light: These plugins are for Capacitor 6 :rotating_light:
>
> Capacitor 2 core plugins are bundled with Capacitor itself.
>
> For Capacitor 3, use the 1.x version of the plugins.
> For Capacitor 4, use the 4.x version of the plugins.
> For Capacitor 5, use the 5.x version of the plugins.

## Plugins

| Package | Source | Version |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [`@capacitor/action-sheet`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/action-sheet) | [`./action-sheet`](./action-sheet) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/action-sheet?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/action-sheet)
| [`@capacitor/app-launcher`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/app-launcher) | [`./app-launcher`](./app-launcher) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/app-launcher?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/app-launcher)
| [`@capacitor/app`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/app) | [`./app`](./app) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/app?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/app)
| [`@capacitor/browser`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/browser) | [`./browser`](./browser) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/browser?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/browser)
| [`@capacitor/camera`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/camera) | [`./camera`](./camera) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/camera?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/camera)
| [`@capacitor/clipboard`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/clipboard) | [`./clipboard`](./clipboard) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/clipboard?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/clipboard)
| [`@capacitor/device`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/device) | [`./device`](./device) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/device?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/device)
| [`@capacitor/dialog`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/dialog) | [`./dialog`](./dialog) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/dialog?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/dialog)
| [`@capacitor/haptics`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/haptics) | [`./haptics`](./haptics) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/haptics?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/haptics)
| [`@capacitor/keyboard`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/keyboard) | [`./keyboard`](./keyboard) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/keyboard?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/keyboard)
| [`@capacitor/local-notifications`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/local-notifications) | [`./local-notifications`](./local-notifications) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/local-notifications?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/local-notifications)
| [`@capacitor/motion`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/motion) | [`./motion`](./motion) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/motion?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/motion)
| [`@capacitor/network`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/network) | [`./network`](./network) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/network?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/network)
| [`@capacitor/preferences`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/preferences) | [`./preferences`](./preferences) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/preferences?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/preferences)
| [`@capacitor/push-notifications`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/push-notifications) | [`./push-notifications`](./push-notifications) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/push-notifications?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/push-notifications)
| [`@capacitor/screen-orientation`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/screen-orientation) | [`./screen-orientation`](./screen-orientation) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/screen-orientation?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/screen-orientation)
| [`@capacitor/screen-reader`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/screen-reader) | [`./screen-reader`](./screen-reader) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/screen-reader?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/screen-reader)
| [`@capacitor/share`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/share) | [`./share`](./share) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/share?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/share)
| [`@capacitor/splash-screen`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/splash-screen) | [`./splash-screen`](./splash-screen) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/splash-screen?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/splash-screen)
| [`@capacitor/status-bar`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/status-bar) | [`./status-bar`](./status-bar) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/status-bar?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/status-bar)
| [`@capacitor/text-zoom`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/text-zoom) | [`./text-zoom`](./text-zoom) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/text-zoom?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/text-zoom)
| [`@capacitor/toast`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/toast) | [`./toast`](./toast) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/toast?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/toast)

## Independent Plugins

These are official Capacitor plugins that are not contained in this repository.

| GitHub | Package | Version |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Background Runner](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor-background-runner) | [`@capacitor/background-runner`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/background-runner) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/background-runner?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/background-runner) |
| [Barcode Scanner](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor-barcode-scanner) | [`@capacitor/barcode-scanner`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/barcode-scanner) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/barcode-scanner?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/barcode-scanner) |
| [Filesystem](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor-filesystem) (*) | [`@capacitor/geolocation`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/filesystem) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/filesystem?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/filesystem) |
| [File Transfer](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor-file-transfer) | [`@capacitor/geolocation`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/file-transfer) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/file-transfer?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/file-transfer) |
| [File Viewer](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor-file-viewer) | [`@capacitor/geolocation`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/file-viewer) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/file-viewer?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/file-viewer) |
| [Geolocation](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor-geolocation) (*) | [`@capacitor/geolocation`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/geolocation) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/geolocation?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/geolocation) |
| [Google Maps](https://github.com/ionic-team/capacitor-google-maps) | [`@capacitor/google-maps`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/google-maps) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/google-maps?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/google-maps) |

(*) These plugins were once part of this repository, but have been since been revamped and migrated to a separate repository. The code pre-migration still remains in this repository for historic purposes.

## Capacitor Labs

These are experimental plugins. Use at your own risk.

| GitHub | Package | Version |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [Watch](https://github.com/ionic-team/CapacitorWatch) | [`@capacitor/watch`](https://capacitorjs.com/docs/apis/watch) | [![npm badge](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@capacitor/watch?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@capacitor/watch) |

## Contributing

See [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](./CONTRIBUTING.md).
