screen-orientation/README.md, before:

# @capacitor/screen-orientation

The Screen Orientation API provides information and functionality related to the orientation of the screen.

## Install

```bash
npm install @capacitor/screen-orientation
npx cap sync
```

## iOS

Locking the Screen Orientation only works for the Capacitor View Controller only, but not other View Controllers being presented (such as the one presented by Browser plugin).
For also lock presented View Controllers, this code can be added to the app's `AppDelegate.swift` file:

```swift
func application(_ application: UIApplication, supportedInterfaceOrientationsFor window: UIWindow?) -> UIInterfaceOrientationMask {
  return UIInterfaceOrientationMask(rawValue: (self.window!.rootViewController as! CAPBridgeViewController).supportedInterfaceOrientations.rawValue)
}
```

### iPad Orientation Lock

By default, an iPad allows Multitasking and its orientation cannot be locked. If you need to lock orientation on an iPad set the option `Requires Full Screen` to `YES` by adding the following to `Info.plist`:

```
  <key>UIRequiresFullScreen</key>
  <true/>
```

## API

<docgen-index>

* [`orientation()`](#orientation)
* [`lock(...)`](#lock)
* [`unlock()`](#unlock)
* [`addListener('screenOrientationChange', ...)`](#addlistenerscreenorientationchange-)
* [`removeAllListeners()`](#removealllisteners)
* [Interfaces](#interfaces)
* [Type Aliases](#type-aliases)

</docgen-index>

<docgen-api>
<!--Update the source file JSDoc comments and rerun docgen to update the docs below-->

### orientation()

```typescript
orientation() => Promise<ScreenOrientationResult>
```

Returns the current screen orientation.

**Returns:** <code>Promise&lt;<a href="#screenorientationresult">ScreenOrientationResult</a>&gt;</code>

**Since:** 4.0.0

--------------------


### lock(...)

```typescript
lock(options: OrientationLockOptions) => Promise<void>
```

Locks the screen orientation.

| Param         | Type                                                                      |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`options`** | <code><a href="#orientationlockoptions">OrientationLockOptions</a></code> |

**Since:** 4.0.0

--------------------


### unlock()

```typescript
unlock() => Promise<void>
```

Unlocks the screen's orientation.

**Since:** 4.0.0

--------------------


### addListener('screenOrientationChange', ...)

```typescript
addListener(eventName: 'screenOrientationChange', listenerFunc: (orientation: ScreenOrientationResult) => void) => Promise<PluginListenerHandle>
```

Listens for screen orientation changes.

| Param              | Type                                                                                                  |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`eventName`**    | <code>'screenOrientationChange'</code>                                                                |
| **`listenerFunc`** | <code>(orientation: <a href="#screenorientationresult">ScreenOrientationResult</a>) =&gt; void</code> |

**Returns:** <code>Promise&lt;<a href="#pluginlistenerhandle">PluginListenerHandle</a>&gt;</code>

**Since:** 4.0.0

--------------------


### removeAllListeners()

```typescript
removeAllListeners() => Promise<void>
```

Removes all listeners.

**Since:** 4.0.0

--------------------


### Interfaces


#### ScreenOrientationResult

| Prop       | Type                         |
| ---------- | ---------------------------- |
| **`type`** | <code>OrientationType</code> |


#### OrientationLockOptions

| Prop              | Type                                                                | Description                                                                                                                           |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`orientation`** | <code><a href="#orientationlocktype">OrientationLockType</a></code> | Note: Typescript v5.2+ users should import <a href="#orientationlocktype">OrientationLockType</a> from @capacitor/screen-orientation. |


#### PluginListenerHandle

| Prop         | Type                                      |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| **`remove`** | <code>() =&gt; Promise&lt;void&gt;</code> |


### Type Aliases


#### OrientationLockType

<code>'any' | 'natural' | 'landscape' | 'portrait' | 'portrait-primary' | 'portrait-secondary' | 'landscape-primary' | 'landscape-secondary'</code>

</docgen-api>

Commit message:

docs(screen-orientation): Android 16 large screen restrictions (#2414)

screen-orientation/README.md, after:

# @capacitor/screen-orientation

The Screen Orientation API provides information and functionality related to the orientation of the screen.

## Install

```bash
npm install @capacitor/screen-orientation
npx cap sync
```

## iOS

Locking the Screen Orientation only works for the Capacitor View Controller only, but not other View Controllers being presented (such as the one presented by Browser plugin).
For also lock presented View Controllers, this code can be added to the app's `AppDelegate.swift` file:

```swift
func application(_ application: UIApplication, supportedInterfaceOrientationsFor window: UIWindow?) -> UIInterfaceOrientationMask {
  return UIInterfaceOrientationMask(rawValue: (self.window!.rootViewController as! CAPBridgeViewController).supportedInterfaceOrientations.rawValue)
}
```

### iPad Orientation Lock

By default, an iPad allows Multitasking and its orientation cannot be locked. If you need to lock orientation on an iPad set the option `Requires Full Screen` to `YES` by adding the following to `Info.plist`:

```
  <key>UIRequiresFullScreen</key>
  <true/>
```

## API

<docgen-index>

* [`orientation()`](#orientation)
* [`lock(...)`](#lock)
* [`unlock()`](#unlock)
* [`addListener('screenOrientationChange', ...)`](#addlistenerscreenorientationchange-)
* [`removeAllListeners()`](#removealllisteners)
* [Interfaces](#interfaces)
* [Type Aliases](#type-aliases)

</docgen-index>

<docgen-api>
<!--Update the source file JSDoc comments and rerun docgen to update the docs below-->

### orientation()

```typescript
orientation() => Promise<ScreenOrientationResult>
```

Returns the current screen orientation.

**Returns:** <code>Promise&lt;<a href="#screenorientationresult">ScreenOrientationResult</a>&gt;</code>

**Since:** 4.0.0

--------------------


### lock(...)

```typescript
lock(options: OrientationLockOptions) => Promise<void>
```

Locks the screen orientation.

Starting in Android targetSdk 36, this method has no effect for large screens (e.g. tablets) on Android 16 an higher.
You may opt-out of this behavior in your app by adding `&lt;property android:name="android.window.PROPERTY_COMPAT_ALLOW_RESTRICTED_RESIZABILITY" android:value="true" /&gt;` to your `AndroidManifest.xml` inside `&lt;application&gt;` or `&lt;activity&gt;`.
Keep in mind though that this opt-out is temporary will no longer work for Android 17. Android discourages setting specific orientations for large screens.
Regular Android phones are unaffected by this change.
For more information check the Android docs at https://developer.android.com/about/versions/16/behavior-changes-16#adaptive-layouts

| Param         | Type                                                                      |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`options`** | <code><a href="#orientationlockoptions">OrientationLockOptions</a></code> |

**Since:** 4.0.0

--------------------


### unlock()

```typescript
unlock() => Promise<void>
```

Unlocks the screen's orientation.

**Since:** 4.0.0

--------------------


### addListener('screenOrientationChange', ...)

```typescript
addListener(eventName: 'screenOrientationChange', listenerFunc: (orientation: ScreenOrientationResult) => void) => Promise<PluginListenerHandle>
```

Listens for screen orientation changes.

| Param              | Type                                                                                                  |
| ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`eventName`**    | <code>'screenOrientationChange'</code>                                                                |
| **`listenerFunc`** | <code>(orientation: <a href="#screenorientationresult">ScreenOrientationResult</a>) =&gt; void</code> |

**Returns:** <code>Promise&lt;<a href="#pluginlistenerhandle">PluginListenerHandle</a>&gt;</code>

**Since:** 4.0.0

--------------------


### removeAllListeners()

```typescript
removeAllListeners() => Promise<void>
```

Removes all listeners.

**Since:** 4.0.0

--------------------


### Interfaces


#### ScreenOrientationResult

| Prop       | Type                         |
| ---------- | ---------------------------- |
| **`type`** | <code>OrientationType</code> |


#### OrientationLockOptions

| Prop              | Type                                                                | Description                                                                                                                           |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **`orientation`** | <code><a href="#orientationlocktype">OrientationLockType</a></code> | Note: Typescript v5.2+ users should import <a href="#orientationlocktype">OrientationLockType</a> from @capacitor/screen-orientation. |


#### PluginListenerHandle

| Prop         | Type                                      |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| **`remove`** | <code>() =&gt; Promise&lt;void&gt;</code> |


### Type Aliases


#### OrientationLockType

<code>'any' | 'natural' | 'landscape' | 'portrait' | 'portrait-primary' | 'portrait-secondary' | 'landscape-primary' | 'landscape-secondary'</code>

</docgen-api>
